
1a. Software Acronym:

        LULESH v1.0

1b. Short Title:

        Livermore Unstructured Lagrange Explicit Shock Hydrodynamics v1.0

2. Author Name(s) and Affiliations:

        Jeff Keasler (Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory)

3. Software Completion Date:

        9/21/2010

4. Brief Description:

        LULESH v1.0 is a 3D unstructured Lagrange hydrodynamics
        simulation written specifically to solve a standard
        analytical test problem, known as the Sedov problem.
        In this problem, a quantum of energy is deposited
        into a gas and propagates through the gas over time.

5. Method of Solution:

        LULESH v1.0 is a C++ 3D Finite Element Lagrange Hydrodynamics
        code solving the inviscid Euler equations using artificial
        viscosity and Flanagan-Belytschko-type hourglass control to
        manage gas flow through a mesh. 

6. Computer(s) for which software is written:

        Any computer supporting a standard C++ compiler.

7. Operating System:

        Tested on Linux, but should run on any.

8. Programming Language(s) Used:

        C++

9. Software Limitations:

        None.  This is a reference implementation which others can modify.
        The code is a bechmark to be used to evaluate advanced architectures
        and does not purport to be accurate to materials science models or
        processes.

10. Unique Features of the Software:

        Written specifically to allow machine specific parameterization
        and testing.  Tries to capture representative floating point and
        memory behavior of 3d continuum hydrodynamic software.

11. Related and Auxiliary Software:

        None

12. Other Programming or Operating Information or Restrictions:

        No known restrictions.  Tested on Linux.

13. Hardware Requirements:

        None

14. Time Requirements:

        Run time depends on computer system.  Run time is completely
        adjustable through parameters.  Nominal time is eight minutes
        on a 2.4 Ghz x86_64 architecture.

15. References:

        Wilkins, Mark, "Computer Simulation of Dynamic Phenomena,"
        Springer, 1999.
